Problem statement (#2)
angelaw7/Plutos: docs/ProblemStatementAndGoals/ProblemStatement.tex

\toprule
\textbf{Date} & \textbf{Developer(s)} & \textbf{Change}\\
\midrule
09/18/2024 & Angela Wang & Initial Draft\\
09/20/2024 & Jason Tan & Environment section and touch ups\\
... & ... & ...\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabularx}
\end{table}

\section{Problem Statement}

% \wss{You should check your problem statement with the
% \href{https://github.com/smiths/capTemplate/blob/main/docs/Checklists/ProbState-Checklist.pdf}
% {problem statement checklist}.} 

% \wss{You can change the section headings, as long as you include the required
% information.}

\subsection{Problem}

> Young adults often face challenges in managing their finances effectively, especially when it comes to tracking expenses and budgeting. For young adults tracking expenses and maintaining a budget can feel too cumbersome, leading many to avoid the process altogether. 
> 
> Despite advancements in AI and automation, most budgeting apps still lack automatic expense tracking, making the process feel tedious and inefficient. This creates frustration and prevents young adults from leveraging modern technology to gain control over their finances and develop better spending habits.

Author: ```suggestion
Young adults often face challenges in managing their finances effectively,
especially when it comes to tracking expenses and budgeting. Despite
advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) and automation, many budgeting apps
still require manual data entry or calculations, resulting in an inefficient and
potentially inaccurate process. This inconvenience often leads users to poorly
manage their budgeting or abandon it altogether, hindering their ability to
optimize spending habits and achieve their financial goals.
```

% information.}

\subsection{Problem}

Young adults often face challenges in managing their finances effectively,
especially when it comes to tracking expenses and budgeting. While various tools are available, many rely on manual data entry, which is time-consuming and prone to errors. This inefficiency leads to frustration and creates a significant barrier for young adults seeking to gain control of their financial situation and develop better spending habits.

\subsection{Inputs and Outputs}

% \wss{Characterize the problem in terms of ``high level'' inputs and outputs.  
% Use abstraction so that you can avoid details.}

Inputs: User inputs data about their expenses and budget goals.

Outputs: Visualizations of the user's spending allocations in comparison to their set budget, and recommendations for how they may adjust their spending to meet their goals.

\subsection{Stakeholders}

Stakeholders include anyone who is looking to better manage their finances, set budget goals, and track their spending, with a focus on young adults.

\subsection{Environment}

\wss{Hardware and software environment}

\section{Goals}

Our goals include the following:
\begin{itemize}

>     \item Develop a machine learning model that can accurately (\textgreater90\%) parse commonly purchased items (e.g., groceries, cleaning supplies) from a picture of a receipt.

Reviewer: oh also should we have a defined accuracy for this doc? or should we save until later @chene40 @paytonchan @fondsonlu FYI
